Welcome to “Introduction to Jupyter Notebooks.” After watching this video, you will be able to define a Jupyter Notebook, explain how to use JupyterLab, and describe how to use the notebooks in JupyterLab. Jupyter Notebooks originated as “iPython,”
originally developed for Python programming. Later, when it started supporting
additional languages, it was renamed Jupyter, which stands for
Julia, Python, and R. However, now, it supports many other languages. A Jupyter Notebook is a browser-based
application that allows you to create and share documents containing code, equations,
visualizations, narrative text links, and more. It is like a scientist’s lab notebook,
where a scientist records all steps to perform their experiments and
the results they can reproduce. In the same way, a Jupyter Notebook
allows a Data Scientist to record their data experiments and
results that others can reuse. Now a Jupyter Notebook file allows
you to combine descriptive text, code blocks, and code output in a single file. When you run the code, it generates the output, including plots and tables,
within the notebook file. And you can then export the notebook to a PDF or HTML file format that can
then be shared with anyone. Next, let’s learn about Jupyter Lab. Jupyter Lab is a browser-based
application that allows you to access multiple Jupyter Notebook
files, other code, and data files. In addition, it extends the functionalities of Jupyter Notebooks by enabling you
to work with multiple notebooks, text editors, terminals, and custom components
in a flexible, integrated, and extensible manner. It is compatible with several file formats
like CSV, JSON, PDF, Vega, and so on. And it is also an open source. Jupyter Notebooks can be used with cloud-based
services like IBM and Google Colab. They don't require any
installation on your local machine. They give you access to the Jupyter
Notebook environment and allow you to import and export notebooks using the
standard IPython Notebook file format. Also, these services support the Python
language and other languages as well. Jupyter Notebooks can be installed via the
command line using the pip install function. It can also be downloaded locally on your laptop through the Anaconda
Platform from Anaconda dot com. Anaconda is one of the popular distributions
which includes Jupyter and Jupyterlab. So, for this course, you have access to a hosted
version of JupyterLab in Skills Network Labs, so you do not require any installations on
your own device to complete the hands-on labs. As shown here, you will see a screen that will
launch the Jupyter Lab in the virtual environment. Simply click the Open tool tab. In this video, you learned that Jupyter Notebooks are used in Data Science
for recording experiments and projects. Jupyter Lab is compatible with many
files and Data Science languages. And there are different ways to
install and use Jupyter Notebooks.